docs/docs/index.md, before:

---
id: index
title: Home
slug: /
---

The Airy Core Platform is a fully-featured, production ready messaging platform
that allows its user to process messaging data from a variety of sources (like
facebook messenger or google business messages). The core platform contains the
following components:

- An ingestion platform that heavily relies on [Apache
  Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org) to process incoming webhook data from
  different sources. We make sense of the data and reshape it into source
  independent contacts, conversations, and messages (see our
  [glossary](glossary.md) for formal definitions).

- An [HTTP api](api/http.md) to manage the data sets the platform
  handles.

- A [webhook](api/webhook) integration server that allows its users to programmatically
  participate in conversations by sending messages (the webhook integration
  exposes events users can "listen" to and react programmatically.)

- A [WebSocket](api/websocket) server that allows clients to receive near real-time updates about
  data flowing through the system.

## Bootstrapping the Airy Core Platform

We provide the Airy CLI for simple installation and interaction with the Airy Core Platform. You can install the Airy CLI by executing the following command.

```
curl get-airy 
```

Alternatively, if you have brew you can run `brew install airy`. To get an overview of all available commands of the Airy CLI go [here](guides/airy-cli.md).


You can run the Airy Core Platform locally by running the following commands:

```bash
airy core start
```

The bootstrap installation requires
[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads) and
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). If they are not
found, the script will attempt to install them for you. 

If Vagrant or VirtualBox cannot be installed with the `bootstrap.sh` script, you will need to install them manually.

The script will also ask for your administrative credentials as we are using the 
[Vagrant Host Manager Plugin](https://github.com/devopsgroup-io/vagrant-hostmanager) to add entries to your hosts file. 
You can skip this step and add the following lines to your hosts file yourself.

```
192.168.50.5  demo.airy
192.168.50.5  api.airy
192.168.50.5  chatplugin.airy
```

Check out our [guide for running in test environment](guides/airy-core-in-test-env.md) for detailed information.

## Connecting a chat plugin source

The chat plugin source is well suited for a first integration because it does not require any configuration.

Once you [signed up](api/http#signup), you must [log in](api/http#login) so you can obtain a valid JWT token for the up-coming API calls:

```bash
token=$(echo $(curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d \
"{ \
\"email\":\"grace@example.com\", \
\"password\":\"the_answer_is_42\" \
}" api.airy/users.login) | jq -r '.token')
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Authorization: $token" -d \
"{ \
    \"source\": \"chat_plugin\", \
    \"source_channel_id\": \"my-chat-channel-1\", \
    \"name\": \"chat plugin source\"
}" api.airy/channels.connect
```

The id from the response is the `channel_id`, note it down as it's required in the next steps.

## Sending messages with the chat plugin

Pass the `channel_id` as query parameter when opening the demo page in your browser. This will authenticate the chat plugin and enable you to send messages immediately: 

```
http://chatplugin.airy/example.html?channel_id=<channel_id>
```

You can now type a message in the text box and send it 🎉 

To see how messages are flowing through the system, you can now [list conversations](api/http.md#list-conversations) for the channel you just created which should return the message you just sent.

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Authorization: $token" -d "{}" \
api.airy/conversations.list | jq .
```

You can also consume the messages directly from the Kafka `application.communication.messages` topic:

```bash
cd infrastructure && vagrant ssh
kubectl exec -it airy-cp-kafka-0 -- /bin/bash
kafka-console-consumer \
--bootstrap-server airy-cp-kafka:9092 \
--topic application.communication.messages \
--from-beginning
```

Commit message:

Add first draft cli commands

docs/docs/index.md, after:

---
id: index
title: Home
slug: /
---

The Airy Core Platform is a fully-featured, production ready messaging platform
that allows its user to process messaging data from a variety of sources (like
facebook messenger or google business messages). The core platform contains the
following components:

- An ingestion platform that heavily relies on [Apache
  Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org) to process incoming webhook data from
  different sources. We make sense of the data and reshape it into source
  independent contacts, conversations, and messages (see our
  [glossary](glossary.md) for formal definitions).

- An [HTTP api](api/http.md) to manage the data sets the platform
  handles.

- A [webhook](api/webhook) integration server that allows its users to programmatically
  participate in conversations by sending messages (the webhook integration
  exposes events users can "listen" to and react programmatically.)

- A [WebSocket](api/websocket) server that allows clients to receive near real-time updates about
  data flowing through the system.

## Bootstrapping the Airy Core Platform

We provide the Airy CLI for simple installation and interaction with the Airy Core Platform. You can install the Airy CLI by executing the following command.

```
curl get-airy.sh
```


Refer to [this page](guides/airy-cli.md) for further information about the Airy CLI..


You can run the Airy Core Platform locally by running the following commands:

```bash
airy core start
```

The bootstrap installation requires
[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads) and
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). If they are not
found, the script will attempt to install them for you. 

If Vagrant or VirtualBox cannot be installed with the `bootstrap.sh` script, you will need to install them manually.

The script will also ask for your administrative credentials as we are using the 
[Vagrant Host Manager Plugin](https://github.com/devopsgroup-io/vagrant-hostmanager) to add entries to your hosts file. 
You can skip this step and add the following lines to your hosts file yourself.

```
192.168.50.5  demo.airy
192.168.50.5  api.airy
192.168.50.5  chatplugin.airy
```

Check out our [guide for running in test environment](guides/airy-core-in-test-env.md) for detailed information.

## Connecting a chat plugin source

The chat plugin source is well suited for a first integration because it does not require any configuration.

Once you [signed up](api/http#signup), you must [log in](api/http#login) so you can obtain a valid JWT token for the up-coming API calls:

```bash
token=$(echo $(curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d \
"{ \
\"email\":\"grace@example.com\", \
\"password\":\"the_answer_is_42\" \
}" api.airy/users.login) | jq -r '.token')
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Authorization: $token" -d \
"{ \
    \"source\": \"chat_plugin\", \
    \"source_channel_id\": \"my-chat-channel-1\", \
    \"name\": \"chat plugin source\"
}" api.airy/channels.connect
```

The id from the response is the `channel_id`, note it down as it's required in the next steps.

## Sending messages with the chat plugin

Pass the `channel_id` as query parameter when opening the demo page in your browser. This will authenticate the chat plugin and enable you to send messages immediately: 

```
http://chatplugin.airy/example.html?channel_id=<channel_id>
```

You can now type a message in the text box and send it 🎉 

To see how messages are flowing through the system, you can now [list conversations](api/http.md#list-conversations) for the channel you just created which should return the message you just sent.

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Authorization: $token" -d "{}" \
api.airy/conversations.list | jq .
```

You can also consume the messages directly from the Kafka `application.communication.messages` topic:

```bash
cd infrastructure && vagrant ssh
kubectl exec -it airy-cp-kafka-0 -- /bin/bash
kafka-console-consumer \
--bootstrap-server airy-cp-kafka:9092 \
--topic application.communication.messages \
--from-beginning
```
